Welcome to chance of Life, the game in which
you get to live 30 days in somebody else's life.
Each time we pick a person and fact from a country around the world.
So get excited,
They come from all kinds of places.
Hit start when you're ready.
Today you're going to be living in Madagascar.
And the person you get to be is Lalaina.
So today is day one and Lalaina just got paid.
That means you get to start well loaded for the month.
Lalaina is a construction worker in the city of Toliara,
which means that like 90% of the people here,
he gets paid minimum wage or less.
Lalaina gets minimum wage.
So here's your budget, $55.
Alright, so Lalaina has a small family:
his wife Tantely and their daughter Malala,
who is four years old.
Neither of them work,
So Lalaina has to take care of them too.
Ready?
GO!
All right, the electricity bill came in.
You haven't used too much power nor water last month.
Do you want to pay the bill today, or maybe later?
Choosing to pay later will cause the power to cut.
Your daughter Malala didn't go to school last month.
You have enough money to put her in school this month.
It's only eight dollars.
Do you want to?
When she doesn't go to school,
you can use your money for other things.
On the other side, an education will help her
get a good job when she grows up.
The food provisions are running out.
Let's get some more.
Now, you usually get a large bag of rice with beans.
Would you like to get some meat this month?
That would be $8.
Sometimes rice and beans don't have enough nutrition.
However, they're cheaper, just $4.
Your daughter is getting sick.
She's got the flu.
Let's take her to the hospital.
The doctor would only charge you $5.
Maybe we can also just treat her at home
with some hot water and sleep.
Tantely is worried about her father in a village nearby.
He's getting very old and sick.
Should you buy a ticket for her to see him?
The tickets to go and come back are only $7.
Or you could wait for maybe next month.
Lalaina's friends came over
and invited him to go out for drinks tonight.
Everybody chips in a bit to get the party going.
Should we go?
Your last phone broke over two months ago.
While walking to work this morning,
You came across this really good deal.
It's a bit old but it makes calls and sends messages.
Lalaina wants to get it.
What do we do?
It's very affordable, it's only $10,
but maybe you think that can wait.
A new store opened in town
and Lalaina found this toy there.
He wants to get it from Malala his daughter.
It's only $3.
Should he get it?
Malala doesn't have that many toys.
She usually plays outside.
She knows this game that's using rocks.
It's pretty fun!
You've been using a very bad iron at home,
and it sometimes stains the family's clothes.
Luckily,
you found this electric one at a second-hand store
and good news:
It's only $4!
The old iron you use uses charcoal.
This would be such an upgrade.
It's nearly the end of the year
and your taxes came through.
You don't have too many expenses.
So it shouldn't add up to much.
Hey, they're only $5.
You've got this weekend off from work.
You could take your family to the beach to relax.
It's only a couple miles away.
So the whole trip would cost only five dollars.
What do you think?
After a long month of working hard,
five dollars is worth it.
But then again, it's still money.
Lalaina wants to surprise Tantely with a gift,
and he found the best deal: a bag.
It looks like pretty good quality
without being too expensive.
This bag is four dollars
and it will replace the old bags
you got years ago.
So should we get it for $4?
You hurt your leg while working.
It might need some medical attention.
Getting it treated at the hospital would cost $15.
On the flip side,
you can try traditional oils for just $4.
But in that case, we can't be sure you'll get better.
What should we do?
You ran out of money before
the end of the month.
Your brother helped you make that last purchase,
but from now until the next paycheck,
you're going to have to subsist without money.
You have some food provisions,
but be really careful not to get sick
or want anything
or do anything else
that could increase your expenses.
There is no restart button in life.
Now, It's out of your control
whether you'll make it or not.
Luckily you made it to the next month
your paycheck came in today.
Do you want to try again?